Questions:
	what comes first, the feeling of dissapointment or the PE of your hope of what could have been?
	dissapointment and anger are feelings, but aren't they just reactions to PE?
	Could model it two ways, looping back to same problem, or coming back to similar worry but as a new thing
	How to deal with interrelated thoughts.
		e.g. Are we still good? and Was my last text lame? Both might be top of mind, but the former could still lead to the same text worry
	In a person, thoughts tend to spin and repeat. In our model that could be wasteful
	How is "she hasn't texted back yet" processed? Does concern even cross your mind after 5 min?
		I think it's about how you go into it. When the thought crosses your mind to check your phone, it comes with "I hope she's already texted back" or "Has she texted back yet" or "Has she still not texted back yet?"
*	Do actions happen as a trail of context, or does context trigger actions but then outcomes link back to context if and when relevant
	Attachments are engaged with when insecure, but even when secure they can be engaged with for escape from other pains. The provide sources of ethereal relief
*	What is "boredom"? Is it an attachment? A prediction error?
		It is unresolved prediction error. Frustrated at friction / lack of progress, feeling like you're doing "nothing" at home when you should be doing "something"
	Does a PE alwasy precede planning? If I like a girl, do I really have to think "without a date it won't happen, therefore I should plan a date"? It's more just like "I want to continue this, therefore I know I gotta plan a date". It's more about fulfulling the simulation, but the simulation isn't necessarily caused by a PE.
	If I'm mentally exhausted, do I associate it with the work I'm doing implicitly, or do I go "I'm exhausted and I've been working on this for 3 hours therefore I'm exhausted from this". If the latter, it seems it'd be easy to trick oneself to push through

Notes:
	Believability score is important, to not just pick the happiest delusion at any step
	PE isn't just about surprises to your beliefs, it's also about beliefs that are already unstable/conditional and you're actively monitoring for their confirmation/failure
	New thoughts do not happen in a vaccuum. They follow premade patterns and caches.
		e.g. You already were worried your last text was lame, so her not texting back immediately affirms that rather than you coming up with that theory from scratch
		Therefore - I have background goals, having background monitoring for met conditions is also useful
	Actions happen within one or more contexts. e.g. checking phone for girl text but also for distraction, news, etc. and can also be surprised by something not in any of your contexts
	Attachments should have a measure of security. If insecure, you're actively monitoring, building, and protecting them. If secure, they exist in the background, to be threatened only if incoming info does so
	Attachments have value because of the fantasy you create with them, and that fantasy is given value by it's use as an escape from other pain. It's all so interconnected
	Simulation itself is escape. Why is that not always enough though? When does fantasy turn into action? I think the reality component is important. Fantasy is never enough, we must always work towards it
	Responses to attachments include: planning and evidence gathering
	Simulations are trying to reduce PE. But they are also trying to reduce uncertainty. This comes back to believability in a way.
		We are wired to minimize surprise and prevent future PE as well
	All planning is to reduce present or future PE. The difference with habits is that they are cached solutions

Flowchart todo:
	What else is attachment related to? You fantasize because you're unsatisfied with something already
	Split up the seeking sections?
	Goal setting
	Attachment security
	Attachments as escapes from other pains
	States and activity should have different shaped nodes


Flows:
-	Information processing
		Contextualize info, which creates new insight/info, while also querying memory. This creates many pings of contextualization which each potentially trigger updates to goal mechanisms
*	Attachment formation
		Do positive experiences inherently form new attachments? No but I do think they can form attachments in a different way than just experiences that satisfy other attachments. e.g. Had fun with a cute girl, attachment forms around simply having more fun times with her, but also around satisfying desire for a partner
			Should they be stored as one, or separate? Many people date people where there's no future bc the fun is enough. Often times they lie to themselves though and hope the other will turn around. This is a nice conflict. It's like the primary attachment is influencing the secondary attachment to persist despite counter evidence
				I do think they should be separate. You think of X, and you feel all the fun you have with them. Then you think of future, and you get sad. You try to resolve the sadness through self delusion.
		Example stories:
			Cute person at party
			Dating someone you enjoy but who tells you there's no future, or with whom you don't see a future
			Person you're dating satisfies a lot of qualities, but not perfectly. Tension to "find the best person" vs someone good enough
			Relief of it being the wrong person, because the attachment and fears of failure were so scary
*	Attachment->goals
		Mechanism that strengthens the attachment or fulfillment plan
		Difference between object of attachment (crush) and the underlying attachment (love)
		Need to factor in likelihood as a score, or security
		Strats:
			Affirm: This is what it could look like
			Validate: Does she like me back? Do I really like her? Any red flags?
				Is this likely to work out
				Are the fantasies even accurate
			Defend: What could prevent this?
	To include
		Multi-threaded competition
		Memory
		Cached responses
		Sense processing
		Attachments influencing each other and conflicting (see attachment formation story above)
		Actions

Attachment object - fields or traits that need to be reflected in system somehow
	What you want
	How good it will make you feel
	How much you already rely on it / expect it
	Likelihood
	Underlying attachment link
	Possible ways to fulfill
		Relevance (how much it's on your mind lately) (possibly emergent from other factors)
		Uncertainty
		Fulfillment amount
		Dependent attachment link

Expectation-Openness Cycle:
1. Feeling of openness after a crash has settled makes new experiences feel full and welcome
2. Expectation begins to rise as you depend on these experiences to feel good
3. With heightened expectations, inevitable impermanence of all things makes the thing you're relying on unreliable, giving shaky ground to your new higher foundation
4. You crash as you realize your new expectations can never reliable


Attachment activity
	Yearning triggers evaluation
		Recent positive memory comes up in brain unprompted and makes you want more
			Even if perfectly content, every experience is unique and offers another sliver of infinity
	Inception should also trigger evaluation, but often happens in reflection?
	Yearning comes from a separate desire to elevate current state, either because of underlying attachment pain, or just bc fantasizing feels good (more on this...)
		Why do we yearn for more even when content?
			Instead of attachments only existing to satisfy current perceived negative states, they can also project future, more positive states
	-
	Does attachment story content update happen on attachment CRUD or async?
		I think it happens along with evaluation, not 
	Does attachment evaluation happen on attachment crud or async?
		I think evaluation is tied to the creation of an attachment. You can't really get attached without at least affirmation
	Order of affirm/validate/defend?
		At the start, there is a desire to create a PE, that is the driving factor. You want to maximize PE (weirdly).
	Maximize "wellbeing" or minimizing PE?
		If all we did was minimize PE, we'd do nothing. There has to be a push and pull. That can be created by valence, or pleasure maximization (PM).
		So then is all activity PM, or is it one or the other?
			Remember my philosophy was that they are one in the same. You don't yearn for a cigarette then relieve yourself. The yearning is also relief and the smoking is also yearning. Well even if that's true, you have to admit the directions are different. You fantasize about the ciggy, then seek it out. Maybe dukkha is the scalar, but the direction still matters
	Difference between PEM and PM moods? I'm sitting and thinking about crush, I can either fantasize to build up the perceived payoff (and feel temporarily good)
		Fantasizing gives a sort of temporary, addictive satisfaction. The act of fantasizing is itself pleasurable, but then also increases expectations
			I need a sort of dopamine/serotonin reward system
	For a more manic-depressive person, I wonder if there should be presets for expectations for any attachment or story? In a top of the world mood, all your fantasies feel closer. In a depressive mood, you feel unworthy to even hope for what you want.
	Baseline always seems to restabilize around expectations
	I'm thinking mood and neurotransmitters could determine what activity people partake in, and if there's more dimensions than just PM and PEM.
	There's a difference between Loving Kindness Mediation and attached fantasies. LKM doesn't make you cling to outcomes, yet is a form of fantasizing. Need a framework that differentiates these. Unless I can prove LKM is still a form of attachment. I think it is actually... it's just selfless attachment and feels good bc more harmonious with others / less conflict
	Possible mood dimensions
		valence vs arousal
		reward seeking vs threat detection and avoidance
		progress towards goal vs not
	What if PE can be negative or positive? Negative means perception is actually greater than expected. If so then PE and PEM could be unified. But then you'd always be trying to lower expectation and improve reality.
	New paradigm: expansion vs correction
		expansion widens the gap between expectation and perception
			Increasing expectation feels good
			Lowering perception (they didn't mean that as a compliment) is protective from future dissapointment
		correction closes the gap
			Increasing perception feels protective, constructive
			Lowering expectation occurs when PE persists without a way out. Feels like defeat, dissapointment.
		PE arises with a gap and feels unsettling. simulated gap shortenings can give peace. Is this the same as correction though?
		Perception changes can be both 
		Baseline shift is emergent
		All scenarios
				Increase expectation via fantasizing (increases gap) (feels good)
				Plan to increase/defend perception via planning, rationalization, self-delusion
				Expected positive perception (lowers gap or sustains small gap) (feels neutral/good)
				Unexpected positive perception (lowers gap) (feels good)
				Unexpected negative perception (increases gap) (feels bad)
				Giving up on expectation in defeat/dissapointment due to evidence (decreases gap)
				Influencing ones own perception to minimize it (increases gap) (not sure of any examples of this)
			Note:
				I'm not sure positive perception actually feels good. What feels good is the validation of the expectation. Laughter feels good, love feels good. These are simple, original dopamine hits. Maybe we're looking at perception wrong. Maybe what we want to measure is simply the confidence in the expectation...
	New paradigm: attachment - confidence model
		Pleasurable experiences create new expectations
		The confidence in the expectation is what creates tension
		States
			Strong attachment + strong confidence = security, peace
			Strong attachment + medium confidence = very active, sweet spot of human drive
			Strong attachment + weak confidence = anxiety, destabilization
			Weak attachment + strong confidence = openness, confident pursuit, peace
			Weak attachment + weak confidence = curiosity, apathy, peace
		Activity
			Formations of attachment feel good, because we simulate the good feelings
			Holding to attachment feels either anxious or driven
			Disillusionment of attachment feels bad
			Letting go of attachment feels like mourning, then peace
		Questions:
			*What determines when you shift from fantasizing to action?
				does the attachment formation step occur before confidence even enters the picture? Or is there a sort of honeymoon confidence that exists before scrutiny can occur?
					Former, since otherwise honeymoon attachments would look no different than achieved, latent attachments, but we need honeymoon to be more active
			Still unsure what makes fantasizing rewarding. Is it just imagined dopamine hits plus increasing confidences of other attachments (which means the leaf of every tree should be base dopamine hits, or fear reduction)
			Need to model confidence levels in my flow chart
			Need to differentiate between future confidence and current attainment? Or are they even different. I don't think so actually.
			Need to model PE in flow chart - will use confidence
			Need the dopamine hit of fantasizing to diminish over time, otherwise you'd just fantasize all day. How to model this?
			Need to model survival as well as dopamine. Love feels good, but pain feels bad.
			Daydreaming is still fun when you have 0 confidence in them. Accepting they won't happen isn't that sad. Although if you're attached to it then yeah it can be (eg get any woman, have enough money to retire)
				It's because it's low attachment
			What constitutes a base positive or negative experience? Pain sure. Laughter sure. But what about insults? compliments? new friends? These are technically abstractions of other attachments
				There should be a reward that takes place with any increase in confidence with an existing attachment that creates a primary positive feeling / dopamine hit I'm thinking.
					Compliments feel immediately good, but a potential partner feels stressful - comes down to confidence (only genuine compliments feel good)
						Valence should be byproduct of: senses, memories, and attachment processing
			Are emotional states implicit in semantics or explicit in scores?
				How to update present context to reflect a different mood

*To do / figure out in flowchart
	Attachment formation
		Based on primary feeling and context
?		Based on a complex of existing attachments? Not sure if separate or complex
	Somatic and motor responses
		Valence should trigger somatic responses, which feed back in as new info
		Limbic level memories should trigger somatic responses
	Affirmation, validation, defense feel good mechanism
		Simulation
	Positive experience vs information and how each is processed with attachments
	Simulated vs real context
	Emotion/valence score
?		How to score 
?		Constantly reframing everything as emotions change? Or more discreet changes?
		How to store memories? Multiple versions with different frames? Last should be the most potent (like Pedrum shroom trip, end of high school, or Oxford trip)
	Caching of feelings/reactions
	Emotional hierarchies
		Interconnection between (valence as interface? linked attachments as interface?)
		Modeling nonverbal language, how someone can make you let your guard down with their vibes. This should probably go in gut
	Memory
	Thought threads, like how what someone is thinking could come back to you, branching convos, etc
	Self awareness
	Empathy, abstract simulations like putting self in others' shoes

To test:
	Compliments
	Insults
	Cute girl also bikes

Manifest:
	Valence is a byproduct of: senses, memories, and attachment processing


Reward center
	Seek good
		Primary experiences like laughter feel good
		Secondary experiences like fantasizing and increasing confidence in attachment feel good
	Avoid bad
		Defend from dissapointment by bringing up confidence to match attachment, or if can't then giving up on attachment
			Validation
			Defense




Levers:
	Expectation
	Perception
	PE
	Pleasure
	Belief

Work exhaustion flow
	Implicitly tagging/associating work as exhausting
	Explicitly contextualizing the work as exhausting
	Accidentally associating with other things?
	Seeking information vs. information coming in
	How to use negative association with work to update rewards
		Mood?
		temporary association with the work?
		long term association with the work?
	Are senses and raw experiences inherently enjoyable, like laughing and love?

Ghosting
	These are the following reactions I'd have
		Immediate worry about my last text
		More long term concern that she's ghosting me
		How long has it been?

Ghosting2
	You do a few things:
		fantasize about things going well - rewarding and also acts as escape
			plan according to fantasies
			create attachment which causes insecurity
				worry about threats
					seek evidence to confirm or deny threats/fantasies
						simulate possibilities
							plan according to fears

E
	Attachment - Want to feel a certain way
		Look for evidence whether I'm getting that
			PE
				Fix
					Figure out what's wrong with h
				Cope/Escape/Fantasize
					About others


Thought processes:
	getting ghosted
	ghoster responds
	excited to get home and unwind
	Cheated, someone said something like they’re catching on
	Friend jabs at your masculinity 
	Skyelar drama
	Girl drama (Lexie)
	Some simpler ones too
	Being humbled
	*Getting irritated at your partner for not living up to expectations

Welcome to Flowchart Fun
  Begin your journey
    Add some steps
      Step 1: Write like an outline
      Step 2: Each line becomes a node
      Step 3: Indent to connect nodes
    Style with classes
      Green? .color_green
      Or maybe blue! .color_blue
    Wrap text in parentheses to connect to any node
      Link back: (Begin your journey)
  Time to decide: What's next?
    Explore more: Right-click nodes for options
    Try AI: Paste a document to convert it
    Keep practicing: You're doing great!
      Now you're thinking with flowcharts!

Flowchart feedback:
	Limited colors (brown and pink at least, like notion. white and black, light blue/green)
	Chaotic chart unless freeze is used. Don't like how updates bulldoze over my orientation
		Thankfully Layout Frozen works well, but is limiting
	Link backs overlap text if both edges have labels. No way to move edges, must place horizontally
	Arrows with no head or tail node
	Select 
